=================
Modi Vivendi [1]_
=================

Two weeks ago I wanted to write an article explaining why I find self 
sufficiency important, what I actually mean by it, and how I see it becoming a 
part of my life. In other words, describing the motivations that drives me to do 
what I am doing. I try writing my documents in a narrative form anyway and as 
such converting the article to a youtube video would be a matter of reading it 
out loud.

But I was struck with the difficulty to articulate  what I  wanted to convey. My 
first problem was that, instinctively, I wanted to  call this article 'Why?'.

The problem was not an inability of writing or thinking, nor was it a lack of 
inspiration. 
No the real problem is that I actually do not have a comprehensive answer to 
that question. Foremost the question is rather large and very context depending. 
The context in this instance is life itself, which makes answering it difficult, 
as the  adage goes, the only constant in life is change. Thus over time the 
answer will change too. 

However I believe in a structural approach to solving difficulties, as such this
question needed to be cut down in smaller more manageable portions. Each portion 
can then be further processed by applying scientific methods. This should allow 
me to identify the dynamic parts and instead of giving an answer that is 
depending on the current context, I document how I identify the context and what
my used methodology is. Thus this would allow me to write an article that does 
not require constant modification, well at least that is the theory and to be 
honest I am knows to tweak articles for weeks after original publication but not
to change them in a contextual sense but to make the text more readable.

So the first problem I had was that I had no idea how to break the 'problem'
down as I did not even knew what that problem was. The phrase 'Modus Operandi' 
popped into my head and after searching what the actual meaning was, I wandered 
of into 'Modi Operandi' then 'Modus Vivendi' and finally 'Modi Vivendi'. 
This last phrase was to become the working title of this article.

During the writing of this article, which in my case means mostly reading out
loud, rereading, rewriting and deleting of entire paragraphs, I found the actual
kernel of what I wanted to write about: How my head ticks and how this 
translates to the methods I use to process and apply the information which will
have a large impact on how I will live my life. But please be aware, I can only
speak for myself, I can not be certain this will work for anybody else but me, 
that is if it's even going to work for me.

Firstly my head is a very chaotic place, at any given time, I have dozens of 
ideas, thoughts and things I want to do. A lot of them are intertwined with each
other, a lot of them are just bogus and not realistic, they are just there
sitting around, eating away my available brain cycles by being a distraction.

The result is that I find it difficult to commit myself into starting something,
as I would be disappointed in myself if I didn't see it through. Regardless of 
what I do, I want to do it to the best of my abilities only constraint by 
external factors (such as a time limit). Which sounds good on paper but the 
effect for me is that I have to put in considerable constraints to prevent
myself getting distracted by other thoughts, that may be related and relevant
but will also cause me to diverge on the original project, with the danger of 
that project suffering under it.

For example; I wanted to start a youtube channel because I was inspired by 
the prepping and bushcraft community who have done some really interesting 
videos, especially the ones done in the UK. But I did not just wanted to rinse 
and repeat what they did, no I wanted something more me.

What is more me, is the theme of self sufficiency, so I went along with that.
But I did not want to put it under my personal youtube channel, as I reserve 
that for private videos of and for my friends/family. So I looked into how I can
create another channel but still linking it to my primary account. Well you can 
do that by creating a Google Plus page. So I did that and subsequently created a
channel under it.

After that I looked into cameras and I could not find a cheap HD one that would 
allow mee to plug in an external microphone, which is important for me because I 
find my own voice is irritating, especially combined with bad internal
microphones. Also one of my pet peeves is wind noise on videos made outdoors.

Since I know I will be obsessively and repeatedly going over my videos whilst 
editing it, I knew I would be constantly agitated if I my voice is even more 
irritating then under the best possible circumstances and thus I would be 
unlikely to release it to the public, which means the effort gone into making 
that video was rather pointless.

However a more urgent problem was that I did not have any material worth while
to put into a video, primarily because I know next to nothing about self 
sufficiency. My naivety of self sufficiency is actually my unique angle on this 
as I can document it from the very beginning, giving a very anecdotal 
perspective that some may find informative or at least amusing as I expect to 
make many mistakes.

To keep momentum going I decided to work on the things surrounding the channel,
perhaps start writing something on the g+ page. That g+ page is really more like 
a message board, which again is not really me, it is useful for news flashes, 
linking and commenting but I like to express myself more elaborately, like 
writing articles. The g+ page is not really suitable for anything longer then 
two paragraphs. Fortunately I remembered that google did offer a free site 
hosting, so off I went to start a google site.

Writing articles directly on that page is again not my preferred way of going 
about, I even try to avoid using programs like Word as I know that in the end it
will always end up being a maintenance nightmare. I like to write in bare
text format called reStructuredText abbreviated with rst)  and then convert it 
to any format I require, like HTML. This however would require me to script a 
conversion tool and knowing if I would start on that first I would never 
actually get anywhere closer to creating a video, so I just pushed myself to 
write a welcome page with that google sites online editor, which was not even 
half bad. 

After I have written that, I started having the need to write that 'Why?' 
article, because I realised that the welcome page is not suitable as a base for 
a video, mostly because it is just a 'look at here and here' type of text and 
the rest is just a place holder till I have more material.  
 
So I thought, well the question 'why' is a motivation issue, so what motivates 
me? It turns out I just have an inert need to 'prep', although so far I have 
ignored it. To make sure if prepping is at all justified I researched into the 
frequency of circumstances where being prepared is a considerable advantage, 
which of course lead to storm and floods. The 'of course' part is that during 
that time in the UK, all there was on the news where the storm and floods of 
2014 and how this affected people, like having no electricity and needing to 
leave their homes.

After doing the research I wrote another page called risk scenario and put my
research data under there, which was a list of floods and storms of the last 40 
years and links to articles that have documented the impact of these. The 
article itself was more of an itemisation list then an article, it would make a 
good base for presentation sheet, but not good enough for an article by itself. 

It did achieve though that I was confident now that preparing for disasters is
not just a figment of my imagination, but something real and necessary with some
hard data behind it to prove it. I actually was appalled that not everybody 
takes steps to be prepared, as this would allow the government to prioritise 
help to the people who really need it and not just the ones that found 
themselves in a sticky situation which they could have prevented or at least 
delayed till the people in greater need haven been helped.

This research proved to me that I am not even doing the basic social 
responsibilities as a citizen of the UK. But I am not beating myself up on it
as it seems to be that vast majority are not doing it either. However a wrong
done by everybody may not be something that is illegal, but it remains a wrong.
And being self sufficient is a win-win situation anyway as the person who will
benefit the most from it is the one doing it.

Nevertheless the risk scenario page was ugly and it bothered me, so I removed 
the reference data of the page and wanted to link to it, but where to put it? 
What I needed was a data store, but since this is my data, I wanted something 
free and available, which in my case means a bitbucket repository.

Okay but now I have two articles on that site and I can see it becoming 
unmaintainable, but I will bare with it for the time being. Time to start that
'Why?' article, which I would then turn later into a video, mind you I still 
didn't have a camera, though I could do it with my phone if needs be. 

It was then I hit the brick wall of a writers block on that article, so instead 
of giving up on it, I side stepped over to the side ideas and converted the 
welcome page to an rst version. So I wrote the converter script that produces 
an HTML page from the source rst. Once I had that output I discovered that the 
google site only allows partial HTML, which meant adapting my converter. 

All this manual converting and uploading was a bit of a pain and I wanted to 
automate that, but I stuck with it because I still needed to reformat the risk
scenario to rst. 

Whilst converting that risk scenario, I was more and more convinced that it was
just not up to scratch and won't make into a video either.

Once I finished with the conversion, I had now two articles, which meant it was 
high time to automate the uploading part of it, which turned out to be a bit 
more difficult then expected because the google site API is convoluted to work 
with. But after adjusting me expectation I had something that at least complied 
with the minimum required functionality, which was that I can hit the enter 
button and my articles will be converted and the google site page is recreated.

Having done that it was really time to start on the 'Why' article, the problem 
was that I still had a mental block, so I continued to search for a cheap HD
video camera with microphone plug in. And I failed in it, even going to ebay and
gum tree I could not find a relative decent one under 200 pounds sterling.

But I remembered that I had a cheap Kodak Zi8 pocket HD camera which had a 
microphone input, so I reverted to use that one instead, which also meant that I
needed to get a tripod and of course the all important microphone. Well to my
surprise it turned out that the microphone I wanted, would be quite expensive.
Partially due to my requirement of it being wind noise resistant, which means
I need to have some sort of shot microphone with a dead cat fur around it.

I grew a bit frustrated over this equipment all being so expensive so I got 
myself a USB microphone and I will just resort to using my computer to record 
the audio and then edit the video with the audio track together.

After receiving my microphone and testing it, I discovered that it was a really
good microphone, as in it picks up all sounds, including the reflection. But 
with some editing this could be managed, still not ideal and there is no way I 
would be able to use the microphone in the 'field'.

Still equipment wise I was now in a state where I would be able to create a 
video that would have some chance of surviving my own criticism, as long as I do
not take it outdoors.

The original problem remained, I still did not know what to do with that 'Why?' 
article. Again to keep momentum going I rewrote the risk scenario to a proper
article which I called risk assessment. 

I started to get in a bit of bother now, because I really needed to get that 
article going. Desperately I tried to analyse what the theme of the article
should be as 'Why?' was just getting me into trouble. I knew that once I have 
the first paragraph written down the rest will follow, my thoughts will get 
clearer along the way and halfway I would have a clear understanding of what I 
want to say, then I would edit the beginning to make it coherent and tweak the
article till it flows nicely. I just needed a start, a theme that would guide my 
Modus Operandi, whatever that actually means.

The first, draft of this article has taken me around 4 days of writing, not
continuously of course as I have a day job and family, still some significant
hours went into it. During that time I also realized my approach to my audio
problem was completely wrong, what I actually needed was not a USB microphone 
but a voice recorderlike the Tascam DR-05 Dictaphone and a lavalier microphone 
like the Rode SmartLav, with an optional furry cover for outdoor use. A tie clip
like microphone will not be so sensitive of ambient noise and as such much more
suitable for audio where voice is important, stupid mistake really. 

Together that would have costed me the same as the USB microphone by the way. 
Then I would also not be restricted by the fact that any decent low cost HD 
camera have no microphone input.

Ironically I don't think this article will make an interesting video on its own, 
it is more suited as background information released simultaneously with for
example a presented version of the risk assessment article.

But at least the 'Why?'is out of the way and I already have some thought about
writing an article about my modi vivendi to self sufficiency. 

.. [1] From Latin, meaning: A manner of living; a way of life.