==========
Motivation
==========

Abstract
-------- 
This is an informal description of my motivation to start the Self Sufficiency 
Collection.

Introduction
------------
As far as I can remember I have always been interested in making, growing, 
raising, hunting, fishing and venturing out into isolated rural locations.

Ironically in my professional life, from being in the military (Intelligence and 
Security Specialist) to now being an IT Consultant have steered me in the 
opposite direction. That is during the week I am in London (UK), which is the 
exact opposite of rural and in the weekend I am with my family in Oxford.

Having moved houses 4 times in the last 6 years, and always to rented 
accommodations, did not help in creating an environment where I can indulge in 
those interests.

During the basic military training I was indoctrinated with being prepared, so 
that at any given moment you where able to leave the barracks, pitch a tent an 
do whatever the CO thought was appropriate, as I recall this was either being in 
a big hurry to an arbitrary location or standing around waiting for the order 
that resulted in being in a big hurry to an arbitrary location.

Preparedness
------------
I am now long gone from the forces and the shrapnel in my legs does take the joy 
out of running around in a hurry. Yet the basic principal of what I learned is 
sound. Being prepared for extreme events buys you time. An extreme event will
cause the environment to change. The time you get for using up your preparations
must be used to handle the situation.

The better prepared you are the more time you will have, however the more 
extreme the new environment is the more time you need.

When you run out of time, well then you are out of time.

Modern Disasters
----------------
The research_ I have done into frequency and likeliness of extreme events, 
concluded that the most likely scenario is an extreme weather event. Here in 
Great-Britain (England, Scotland and Wales), we have an extreme weather 
event every three years. Extreme as in it cause disruption to the grid services.

If you take away all grid services like electricity, gas, water and sewage 
disposal, the average western men will perish. Yet a vast part of the earths 
population life and reproduce in environments with no or limited grid services. 
Historically speaking, 250 year ago everybody was living with no or limited 
services.

Which means that when an average healthy western person perishes due to the 
unavailability of grid services, it only happens because he/she allowed this to 
happen. 

Three Options
-------------
When confronted with a sudden unavailability of the services, regardless whether
these are grid connected or not, you have the following choices:
- Restore the environment to the previous state
- Relocate to an environment unaffected
- Adapt to the situation

Performing the chosen task takes time, time that you get by using your 
preparations. The choices are more or less in order of fall back. Thus if 
everything else fails, your last option of long term surviving is by having the 
skill set equal to those of 250 years ago and the resources to last for 18 
months whilst creating a sustainable and complete source of sustenance.

However living like 250 years ago, is hard work with only limited amount of time
available to improve the situation beyond just living.

Rebuilding or restoring the previous state will be the best option, but for that
you will need the knowledge, skill and material to be able to do that. 
Ironically the average modern person does not have the skill set either to 
rebuild the state on which they rely on with their life.

So in short the average modern men is in the following situation:
 - Has no preparations 
 - Has no rebuilding skills
 - Has no primitive survival skills

In Reality
----------
It is good to have a primitive survival skills, as this will take a lot of the 
pressure of the fear in a emergency situation, the only thing worse in a bad
situation is to panic in a bad situation, actually to panic makes any situation
worse.

However the reality is that, the most likely thing to go wrong is a temporarily 
unavailability of grid services, you will be eventually moved to another area 
whilst waiting for the engineers to repair the damaged infrastructure and the 
services to be re-enabled, which they probably won't do for free, one way or 
another you will pay for it.

For me, the best situation to be in, is to use the grid services as a backup to 
my backup of my services created/generated at home. Ideally I would not be even
aware if there is a problem with the grid services and as soon as the 
supermarkets are stocked up again I will replenish my food cash. 

I also believe that automation of personal plant growing systems is the true way
forward. Yes I will not be able to bake my own silicon chips and solder together 
a computer when things really go south, but I am not preparing to live like it 
was in 1650, I am preparing to live for life like it is going to be 2150.

I envisage that in the future everybody has their own little production facility
at home, both for equipment (say 3d printers), food and energy.

Well it is either that or we are all slaves of the companies that own the grid
services and the industrial farms. 
 

.. _research: https://sites.google.com/site/towardsselfsufficiency/articles/risk-assessment


 