==================================================================
Risk Assessment of Temporary Disruption to National Infrastructure 
==================================================================

Introduction
------------
In this assessment I focus on the most likely scenario on which disruption can 
occur in the national infrastructure in Great-Britain, specifically England,
Wales and Scotland.

Investigation Candidates
------------------------
From a historic point of view, weather extremes, specifically storm and floods
have caused significant damages. Although past occurrences do not provide a
reliable source to predict future events, taking at least a one generation time 
span (30+ years in current acceptance [1]_), will provide sufficient indication
in the perspective of risk assessment.

Due to lack of historical data and/or widely acceptable statistical 
probabilities (applicable to the above mentioned region of interest) the 
following candidates have been *excluded*: riots, terrorism, corporate gross 
negligence, earthquakes, solar flares, asteroid impact, conventional/CBRN [2]_ 
warfare, epidemic, social revolution and political suppression.

Storm and Floods
----------------
In the last 40 years (1974-2014) there where 14 events, which is a mean time 
between events of 35 months, or just short under every three years. On these
events regions near rivers and sea fronts where the most vulnerable. All of 
these events caused damage to infrastructure and buildings. Which resulted in
some occasion to the loss of life.

Contributing Factors
--------------------
Although it is financial unsound to prepare for all historical (since records 
began) extreme weather events, it has been indicated that the current 
preparation levels are not sufficient for the frequency in which weather 
extremes are occurring.

Climate change is by the vast majority of researchers in that field classified
as a proven and undeniable fact, the level on which this affects the frequency 
of extreme weather events is still debatable. Though there is a notable increase
in the frequency since the last 40 years. For more information please see the 
tabulation [3]_, this is a summation which in itself has references to commonly
acceptable creditable sources.

Speculation on why current preparation levels are under-performing:
 - Insufficient maintenance of infrastructure by utility companies
 - Insufficient risk management by local governments
 - National governments escalations protocols insufficient

Damage Impact
-------------
The following infrastructure is frequently damaged during extreme events:
 - Underground pipes
 - Overland wiring
 - Road
 - Rail

This will cause the following services to be affected for certain period:
 - Electricity
 - Water
 - Gas
 - Sewage

The period of which these services are unavailable seem to be at least 3 days to
upwards of 3 weeks after the event has subsided.

The following essential goods are often difficult to obtain during the disruptions:
 - Fuels; Paraffin, Petrol, Coal etc.
 - Food and Food Supplements
 - Clothing
 - Medication
 - Personal Hygiene Products

Assessment
----------
The statistical occurrence of an event where there is a disruption to 
infrastructure is around every 3 years, most risk can be avoided by not residing
in areas which have a recorded history of flooding or are near the sea front.

However areas that are not directly affected may be affected indirectly because
the national infrastructure may pass/rely on infrastructure in an affected area.

Another issue to consider is that the majority of residents in the affected area
may not be prepared and as such will eventually leave. If the amount of 
residents exceeds the handling capacity of the emergency services a situation
will occur that residents will provide themselves with the essential goods by 
any means necessary. 

This will result in an overload of the entire emergency service, which can not 
control the situation via conventional means. Whilst the national government is
preparing to react to the escalation it is likely that there is an increase of 
pillage and grievous bodily harm.

Note that this scenario has no precedence and is only projected from the 
possibility of multiple disruptions taken place over a prolonged period.

As there are around 600,000 personal in the armed forces, police and fire 
prevention [4]_ an amount of 1 million residents in action due to discord will
likely be enough to collapse the system. 

However not all residents will be taken actions, my estimate is that only half 
of them will. So the amount of affected residents should be at least around 2 
million. Furthermore the affected area needs to be sufficiently large so it can
not be effectively hold under quarantine.

Realistically a system overload will mostly only occur if 3 out of the 10 [5]_
biggest cities simultaneously collapse in distress.

Conclusion
----------
It is prudent to prepare for an eventuality where no services are available and 
no essential goods can be acquired, these preparations should last for at least
3 days. More then 3 weeks preparation, if willing to relocate to a government
supported environment, would likely not be necessary. 


.. [1] http://www.oecd.org/dataoecd/62/49/41919586.pdf
.. [2] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/CBRN
.. [3] https://bitbucket.org/towards_self_sufficiency/data/src/default/data/data_extreme_events_since_1974.csv.
.. [4] https://www.gov.uk/government/uploads/system/uploads/attachment_data/file/221885/budget2013_complete.pdf
.. [5] London, Birmingham, Leeds, Glasgow, Sheffield, Bradford, Liverpool, Edinburgh, Manchester & Bristol,